{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf810
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;
\f3\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f4\fnil\fcharset0 Tahoma;\f5\ftech\fcharset0 Wingdings-Regular;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red24\green55\blue106;\red0\green0\blue0;
\red0\green0\blue255;\red107\green0\blue109;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgray\c0;\cssrgb\c12157\c28627\c49020;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;
\cssrgb\c0\c0\c100000;\cssrgb\c50196\c0\c50196;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 From: "Surry, Maria" <Maria.Surry@dfo-mpo.gc.ca>\
Subject: RE: FISHDATA-1575: Flatfish catch, effort, and biological data (Research component)\
Date: April 6, 2017 at 1:19:29 PM PDT\
To: Samuel Johnson <samuelj@sfu.ca>\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec3 Hi Sam,
\f3\fs32 \cf4 \strokec4 \

\f2\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf3 \strokec3 Here\'92s a new Dover Sole file!
\f3\fs32 \cf4 \strokec4 \

\f2\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf3 \strokec3 Maria
\f3\fs32 \cf4 \strokec4 \

\f2\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf3 \strokec3 \'a0
\f3\fs32 \cf4 \strokec4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\sa0\partightenfactor0

\f4\b\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf4 From:
\b0  Samuel Johnson [mailto:samuelj@sfu.ca] \uc0\u8232 
\b Sent:
\b0  Tuesday, April 04, 2017 1:46 PM\uc0\u8232 
\b To:
\b0  Surry, Maria\uc0\u8232 
\b Subject:
\b0  Re: FISHDATA-1575: Flatfish catch, effort, and biological data (Research component)
\f3\fs32 \
\'a0\
No problem, thanks a lot!\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa320\partightenfactor0
\cf4 _______________________________________________\uc0\u8232 Samuel Johnson\u8232 PhD Candidate,\u8232 Quantitative Fisheries Research Group,\u8232 School of Resource and Environmental\'a0Management,\u8232 Simon Fraser University\u8232 \u8232 \u8232 \u8232 \u8232 \u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa0\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \'a0\
On Apr 4, 2017, at 10:22 AM, Surry, Maria <{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "mailto:Maria.Surry@dfo-mpo.gc.ca"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul \ulc5 \strokec5 Maria.Surry@dfo-mpo.gc.ca}}> wrote:\
\'a0\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf3 \strokec3 Hi Sam \'96 I must not have updated the script for Dover Sole. \'a0I likely won\'92t get a chance until at least late this afternoon, but I\'92ll get it to you as soon as possible.\'a0 It doesn\'92t take long to run.
\f3\fs32 \cf4 \strokec4 \

\f2\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf3 \strokec3 Maria
\f3\fs32 \cf4 \strokec4 \

\f2\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf3 \strokec3 \'a0
\f3\fs32 \cf4 \strokec4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\sa0\partightenfactor0

\f4\b\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf4 From:
\b0 \'a0Samuel Johnson [{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "mailto:samuelj@sfu.ca"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul \ulc5 \strokec5 mailto:samuelj@sfu.ca}}]\'a0\uc0\u8232 
\b Sent:
\b0 \'a0Tuesday, April 04, 2017 8:36 AM\uc0\u8232 
\b To:
\b0 \'a0Surry, Maria\uc0\u8232 
\b Subject:
\b0 \'a0Re: FISHDATA-1575: Flatfish catch, effort, and biological data (Research component)
\f3\fs32 \
\'a0\
Hi Maria,\
\'a0\
Me again, haha. Thanks again for all the data! Hope you\'92re doing well :)\
\'a0\
Sorry to bother you, but I think you\'92ve accidentally given me the old Dover sole file without maturity codes, all the other fish have them but not Dover.\
\'a0\
Thanks!\
Sam\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa320\partightenfactor0
\cf4 _______________________________________________\uc0\u8232 Samuel Johnson\u8232 PhD Candidate,\u8232 Quantitative Fisheries Research Group,\u8232 School of Resource and Environmental\'a0Management,\u8232 Simon Fraser University\u8232 \u8232 \u8232 \u8232 \u8232 \u8232 \u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa0\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \'a0\
On Mar 29, 2017, at 3:49 PM, Samuel Johnson <{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "mailto:samuelj@sfu.ca"}}{\fldrslt \cf6 \ul \ulc6 \strokec6 samuelj@sfu.ca}}> wrote:\
\'a0\
Thanks a lot Maria, very helpful. Catch data when you can is fine :)\
\'a0\
Sam\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa320\partightenfactor0
\cf4 _______________________________________________\uc0\u8232 Samuel Johnson\u8232 PhD Candidate,\u8232 Quantitative Fisheries Research Group,\u8232 School of Resource and Environmental\'a0Management,\u8232 Simon Fraser University\u8232 \u8232 \u8232 \u8232 \u8232 \u8232 \u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa0\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \'a0\
On Mar 29, 2017, at 12:49 PM, Surry, Maria <{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "mailto:Maria.Surry@dfo-mpo.gc.ca"}}{\fldrslt \cf6 \ul \ulc6 \strokec6 Maria.Surry@dfo-mpo.gc.ca}}> wrote:\
\'a0\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf3 \strokec3 Hi Sam,
\f3\fs32 \cf4 \strokec4 \

\f2\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf3 \strokec3 I\'92ve added maturity to the biological data (all other fields remain the same), and included the descriptions for maturity convention \'93flatfish.\'94 \'a0\'a0I\'92ve also provided the descriptions and areas for the depth strata (\'93grouping code\'94).\'a0 If you want to generate biomass indices for each species as per the method used in our assessments, Norm can likely run his bootstrap code for you, or maybe that sort of thing is obvious for you\'a0
\f5 J
\f2 .
\f3\fs32 \cf4 \strokec4 \

\f2\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf3 \strokec3 \'a0
\f3\fs32 \cf4 \strokec4 \

\f2\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf3 \strokec3 I haven\'92t forgotten about the commercial data\'85
\f3\fs32 \cf4 \strokec4 \

\f2\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf3 \strokec3 \'a0
\f3\fs32 \cf4 \strokec4 \

\f2\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf3 \strokec3 Maria
\f3\fs32 \cf4 \strokec4 \

\f2\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf3 \strokec3 \'a0
\f3\fs32 \cf4 \strokec4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\sa0\partightenfactor0

\f4\b\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf4 From:
\b0 \'a0Samuel Johnson [{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "mailto:samuelj@sfu.ca"}}{\fldrslt \cf6 \ul \ulc6 \strokec6 mailto:samuelj@sfu.ca}}]\'a0\uc0\u8232 
\b Sent:
\b0 \'a0Monday, March 20, 2017 10:13 PM\uc0\u8232 
\b To:
\b0 \'a0Surry, Maria\uc0\u8232 
\b Subject:
\b0 \'a0Re: FISHDATA-1575: Flatfish catch, effort, and biological data (Research component)
\f3\fs32 \
\'a0\
Hi Maria,\
\'a0\
Thanks again for the data. I\'92m just going through it now, and wondered if you some additional data was available:\
\'a0\
1. Stratum area for each survey to scale densities to relative biomass (saves me going through old stock assessments and trying to get them from there)\
2. Maturity for the biological data\
\'a0\
Sorry to be a pain, thanks again for your help :)\
\'a0\
Sam\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa320\partightenfactor0
\cf4 _______________________________________________\uc0\u8232 Samuel Johnson\u8232 PhD Candidate,\u8232 Quantitative Fisheries Research Group,\u8232 School of Resource and Environmental\'a0Management,\u8232 Simon Fraser University\u8232 \u8232 \u8232 \u8232 \u8232 \u8232 \u8232 \u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa0\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \'a0\
On Mar 2, 2017, at 2:50 PM, Samuel Johnson <{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "mailto:samuelj@sfu.ca"}}{\fldrslt \cf6 \ul \ulc6 \strokec6 samuelj@sfu.ca}}> wrote:\
\'a0\
Awesome, thanks so much Maria!\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa320\partightenfactor0
\cf4 _______________________________________________\uc0\u8232 Samuel Johnson\u8232 PhD Candidate,\u8232 Quantitative Fisheries Research Group,\u8232 School of Resource and Environmental\'a0Management,\u8232 Simon Fraser University\u8232 \u8232 \u8232 \u8232 \u8232 \u8232 \u8232 \u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa0\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \'a0\
On Mar 2, 2017, at 2:48 PM, Surry, Maria <{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "mailto:Maria.Surry@dfo-mpo.gc.ca"}}{\fldrslt \cf6 \ul \ulc6 \strokec6 Maria.Surry@dfo-mpo.gc.ca}}> wrote:\
\'a0\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf3 \strokec3 Hi Sam,
\f3\fs32 \cf4 \strokec4 \

\f2\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf3 \strokec3 It was quick only because I used some code I happened to have from Norm!
\f3\fs32 \cf4 \strokec4 \

\f2\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf3 \strokec3 \'a0
\f3\fs32 \cf4 \strokec4 \

\f2\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf3 \strokec3 I\'92ve re-extracted the biodata to include ages.\'a0 You\'92ll have to check the relevant stock assessments to see if there\'92s any information on how specimens were selected for aging.\'a0
\f3\fs32 \cf4 \strokec4 \

\f2\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf3 \strokec3 \'a0
\f3\fs32 \cf4 \strokec4 \

\f2\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf3 \strokec3 Maria
\f3\fs32 \cf4 \strokec4 \

\f2\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf3 \strokec3 \'a0
\f3\fs32 \cf4 \strokec4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\sa0\partightenfactor0

\f4\b\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf4 From:
\b0 \'a0Samuel Johnson [{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "mailto:samuelj@sfu.ca"}}{\fldrslt \cf6 \ul \ulc6 \strokec6 mailto:samuelj@sfu.ca}}]\'a0\uc0\u8232 
\b Sent:
\b0 \'a0Thursday, March 02, 2017 10:34 AM\uc0\u8232 
\b To:
\b0 \'a0Surry, Maria\uc0\u8232 
\b Subject:
\b0 \'a0Re: FISHDATA-1575: Flatfish catch, effort, and biological data (Research component)
\f3\fs32 \
\'a0\
Awesome, thanks a lot, Maria. That was quick!\
\'a0\
Just one initial question: was age data missing or unavailable? I was hoping to get ages if they exist :)\
\'a0\
Cheers,\
Sam\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa320\partightenfactor0
\cf4 _______________________________________________\uc0\u8232 Samuel Johnson\u8232 PhD Candidate,\u8232 Quantitative Fisheries Research Group,\u8232 School of Resource and Environmental\'a0Management,\u8232 Simon Fraser University\u8232 \u8232 \u8232 \u8232 \u8232 \u8232 \u8232 \u8232 \u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa0\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \'a0\
On Mar 2, 2017, at 10:15 AM, Surry, Maria <{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "mailto:Maria.Surry@dfo-mpo.gc.ca"}}{\fldrslt \cf6 \ul \ulc6 \strokec6 Maria.Surry@dfo-mpo.gc.ca}}> wrote:\
\'a0\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf4 Hi Sam,
\f3\fs32 \

\f2\fs29\fsmilli14667 Here are the research data you requested for your \'93DERPA\'94 flatfish complex.\'a0 See the attached documentation for details about the fields in each file, and what\'92s actually included.
\f3\fs32 \

\f2\fs29\fsmilli14667 \'a0
\f3\fs32 \

\f2\fs29\fsmilli14667 I was able to use Norm\'92s r-code to extract all the CPUE and associated fishing information for each survey.\'a0 This is exactly what is documented in the various stock assessments as \'93CPUE density.\'94 I copied the explanation from the skate assessment (King et al. 2015) because it\'92s the version I have access to, but I believe it\'92s the same info as in all the other assessments that use the same methodology to calculate biomass indices.
\f3\fs32 \

\f2\fs29\fsmilli14667 \'a0
\f3\fs32 \

\f2\fs29\fsmilli14667 For biological data, if you were looking for something different, let me know.
\f3\fs32 \

\f2\fs29\fsmilli14667 \'a0
\f3\fs32 \

\f2\fs29\fsmilli14667 Finally \'96 any questions, please ask!\'a0 I\'92ll be working on the various extractions of commercial data that we discussed.
\f3\fs32 \

\f2\fs29\fsmilli14667 \'a0
\f3\fs32 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa0\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf4 Maria Surry
\f3\b0\fs32 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf4 \'a0
\f3\fs32 \

\f2\fs26\fsmilli13333 A/Program Head, Groundfish Data Unit
\f3\fs32 \

\f2\fs26\fsmilli13333 Fishery & Assessment Data Section, Science Branch
\f3\fs32 \

\f2\fs26\fsmilli13333 Fisheries and Oceans Canada / Government of Canada
\f3\fs32 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa0\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "mailto:maria.surry@dfo-mpo.gc.ca"}}{\fldrslt 
\f2\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf6 \ul \ulc6 \strokec6 maria.surry@dfo-mpo.gc.ca}}
\f2\fs26\fsmilli13333 \'a0/ Tel: 250-756-7317
\f3\fs32 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf4 \'a0
\f3\fs32 \

\f2\fs26\fsmilli13333 Section des donn\'e9es de p\'eache et d'\'e9valuation, Branche des Sciences
\f3\fs32 \

\f2\fs26\fsmilli13333 P\'eaches et Oc\'e9ans Canada / Gouvernement du Canada
\f3\fs32 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa0\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "mailto:maria.surry@dfo-mpo.gc.ca"}}{\fldrslt 
\f2\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf6 \ul \ulc6 \strokec6 maria.surry@dfo-mpo.gc.ca}}
\f2\fs26\fsmilli13333 \'a0/ T\'e9l: 250-756-7317
\f3\fs32 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa0\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf4 \'a0
\f3\fs32 \
<biology.zip><density.zip><FISHDATA-1575-1660_RESEARCH.docx>\
\'a0\
<biology_with_age.zip><FISHDATA-1575-1660_RESEARCH_updated.docx>\
\'a0\
\'a0\
<derpa_strata.csv><biology_with_mat.zip>\
\'a0\
}